Sharknet is a script that runs on FreeNAS via the cli that allows simple, autoconfigured, direct connectivity from the NAS to a client system(s). The only limit to how many systems that can be connected is the amount of ports directly on the FreeNAS or any Downstream switches. It is designed to integrate seamlessly with FreeNAS after setup leaving almost all FreeNAS features available.The script also indicates what needs done to ensure that after reboot that Sharknet is still configured

Direct connections are commonly wanted for high speed expensive ports as they remove/reduce the need for switches and simplify network setup. This setup is only recommended for certain niche use cases of FreeNAS. But in niche use cases like certain M&E (Media and Entertainment) workflows it can be very helpful. These case are generally small shops with little to no IT resources that may need exceptional storage performance with minimal components and configuration.

An example usage is to support a 2018 iMac Pro which only has one 10GBASE-T connection. Many FreeNAS systems have onboard 10GBASE-T connections or one can be cheaply added. Using Sharknet, directly connecting the two 10GBASE-T ports will give the iMac an IP address, 10g connectivity to the FreeNAS, and internet all in one cable. No configuration is needed on the iMac side. From the iMac you will then be able to go to nas.local.ixsystems.com to access the FreeNAS and all of its services.

Sharknet will work with any client operating system that supports dhcp.
